README.md, before:

# FoodForYou

### Introduction

FoodForYou API is an open source **food-delivery system API** which allows users to find and create meals, create orders and includes a full user login system.
<br>
Current Version: 0.2.0

### Project Support Features

- find / create / update / delete meals
- find / create / update / delete orders
- full user authentication system
- admin functionality

### Prerequisites

You need to have **NodeJS** (v14.17.6 or higher) installed on your system in order to install and run the application.

### Installation Guide

- clone this repository [here](https://github.com/florianhund/FoodForYou)

- navigate into the repository

- install all dependencies

```bash
git clone https://github.com/florianhund/FoodForYou
cd FoodForYou
npm i
```

- Create a **.env file in your project root folder** and add your variables. See .env.example for assistance.
  <br>
  Set NODE_ENV to DEVELOPMENT if you are not running the application in production mode.

### Usage

Run the following command in the root directory to start the application.

```bash
npm start
```

The server will run at the port specified in .env file.

### Documentation

The following route provides information about all **API-Endpoints, schemas, servers** and the whole project itselves. You should access this route via any browser.
<br>
GET /api-docs

### Technologies Used

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org) This is a **cross-platform runtime environment** built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine used in running JavaScript codes on the server. It allows for installation and managing of dependencies and communication with databases.

- [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com) This is a **NodeJS web application framework**.

- [MongoDB](https://mongodb.com) This is a free open source **NoSQL Document database** with scalability and flexibility where data is stored in JSON-like documents.

- [Mongoose ODM](https://mongoosejs.com) This makes it easy to write **MongoDB** validation by providing a straight forward, schema-based solution to model to application data.

- [Typescript](https://typescriptlang.org) This is a **strongly typed programming language** that builds on JavaScript, giving you better tooling at any scale.

- [Express-Validator](https://express-validator.github.io) This is a set of **express.js middlewares** that wraps validator.js validator and sanitizer functions.

- [Swagger-Ui-Express](https://swagger.io/) This is an Interface Description Language for **describing RESTful APIs**. It is used to design, build and document RESTful web services.

- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) This is a delightful JavaScript / Typescript **Testing Framework**.

- [Passport](https://www.passportjs.org/) This is **authentication middleware** for Node.js. Extremely flexible and modular, Passport can be unobtrusively dropped in to any Express-based web application. A comprehensive set of strategies support authentication using a username and password, Facebook, Twitter, and more.

- [Nodemailer](https://nodemailer.com/about/) This is a module for Node.js applications to allow easy as cake **email sending**. The project got started back in 2010 when there was no sane option to send email messages, today it is the solution most Node.js users turn to by default.

### Authors

- [Florian Hundegger](https://github.com/florianhund)

### License

This project is available for use under the **MIT License**. Click [here](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) for further information.

Commit message:

Finish alpha release and implement changelog

README.md, after:

# FoodForYou 1.0.0-alpha.1

### Introduction
FoodForYou API is an open source **food-delivery system API** which allows users to find and create meals, create orders and includes a full user login system.
<br>

### Project Support Features
- find / create / update / delete meals
- find / create / update / delete orders
- full user authentication system
- admin functionality (not implementet yet)
- payment functionality (not implementet yet)

### Prerequisites
You need to have **NodeJS** (v14.17.6 or higher) installed on your system in order to install and run the application.

### Installation Guide
- clone this repository [here](https://github.com/florianhund/FoodForYou)
- navigate into the repository
- install all dependencies
```bash
git clone https://github.com/florianhund/FoodForYou
cd FoodForYou
npm i
```
- Create a **.env file in your project root folder** and add your variables. See .env.example for assistance.
  <br>
  Set NODE_ENV to DEVELOPMENT if you are not running the application in production mode.

### Usage
Run the following command in the root directory to start the application.
```bash
npm start
```
The server will run at the port specified in .env file.

### Documentation
The following route provides information about all **API-Endpoints, schemas, servers** and the whole project itselves. You should access this route via any browser.
<br>
GET /api-docs

### Technologies Used
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org) This is a **cross-platform runtime environment** built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine used in running JavaScript codes on the server. It allows for installation and managing of dependencies and communication with databases.
- [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com) This is a **NodeJS web application framework**.
- [MongoDB](https://mongodb.com) This is a free open source **NoSQL Document database** with scalability and flexibility where data is stored in JSON-like documents.
- [Mongoose ODM](https://mongoosejs.com) This makes it easy to write **MongoDB** validation by providing a straight forward, schema-based solution to model to application data.
- [Typescript](https://typescriptlang.org) This is a **strongly typed programming language** that builds on JavaScript, giving you better tooling at any scale.
- [Express-Validator](https://express-validator.github.io) This is a set of **express.js middlewares** that wraps validator.js validator and sanitizer functions.
- [Swagger-Ui-Express](https://swagger.io/) This is an Interface Description Language for **describing RESTful APIs**. It is used to design, build and document RESTful web services.
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) This is a delightful JavaScript / Typescript **Testing Framework**.
- [Passport](https://www.passportjs.org/) This is **authentication middleware** for Node.js. Extremely flexible and modular, Passport can be unobtrusively dropped in to any Express-based web application. A comprehensive set of strategies support authentication using a username and password, Facebook, Twitter, and more.
- [Nodemailer](https://nodemailer.com/about/) This is a module for Node.js applications to allow easy as cake **email sending**. The project got started back in 2010 when there was no sane option to send email messages, today it is the solution most Node.js users turn to by default.
- [passportjs]()
- [bcrypt]()
- [Cookie-Session]()

### Authors
- [Florian Hundegger](https://github.com/florianhund)

### License
This project is available for use under the **MIT License**. Click [here](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) for further information.
